joining us now on the phone from dead
albala in Gaza is amjad shawa the
director of the Palestinian ngo's
Network I'm J thank you so much for
joining us we began our coverage with
the very heartbreaking story of an
8-year-old girl and her brother two
children from the same family who died
of malnutrition if you could paint a
picture for us um Jud how many families
are going through similarly
heartbreaking situations
thank you this is the family that you
could reach but there's other thousands
of families that they have a chance to
tell their stories about the femine
about the situation that the hard
situation that they're living in due to
the Israel aggression and the same time
the blockade that
continue uh for the eight months and
just to remind everyone that from day
one of this war Israel
declared that they will deny the
entrance of the basic needs food
medicine water and electricity to the
Gaza F and during this eight months
although there was so many positions
from the international actors from the
from the US from the Western
countries from the UN calling Israel to
left the blockage but there is also from
the International from the EC and the
ICC but there was clear position from
Israel on the ground to prevent the
entrance of the different items mainly
the food items which getting Gaza with
limited the quantities every day we have
from in the good days we have about 200
trucks this is during the war this is
during the biggest humanitarian
catastrophe this is an unprecedented
situation not only in Gaza it's all over
the world who could imagine to deny the
entrance of the basic needs and food for
children and medicine and other
different items which doesn't need as
the fuel for example that which is
needed to to for the generators in the
hospitals and for the water facilities
it's a serious concern of the lives of
the children we have 50 children that
recorded and the minist of Health died
because of male nutrition and the same
time that we we have strong indicators
of the femin in Gaza trip and we called
the UN in order in order to declare Gaza
as a femine status that uh that we have
also 3,500 children according to the
records are suffering from severe
malnutrition and there is a lot of so
many children died on silence and they
were puted in the graves with no goods
and I'm we we've heard from the World
Health Organization and I'll just read a
comment from them despite reports of
increased delivery of food there is no
evidence that those who need it most are
receiving sufficient quantity and
quality of food that's what you're
seeing on the ground isn't
it yes what we see in the ground there
is no enough quantities of food entering
Gaza uh and just to tell you that before
this war there was we to have 600 700
truck SLS entering Gaza now in such
catastrophe we have the maximum we have
200 trucks in the good days so it's and
nowadays that all Gaza
population depend on the humanitarian
Aid entered through the crossings so
this these uh quantities are not enough
to feed the children and so many amilies
are spending all the day with less than
one meal and most of them children also
drinking water just to tell you that
each person here the
maximum consumption it's 2 liter a day
in such hot weather humidity and most of
the population are living intense and
very serious deteriorated condition
and pollute pollution is there due to
the the untreated water which is the
tunnels between the tent itself so we
have concerns about yes food water
medicine and if there have we have mtion
cases it's very difficult to get them to
the hospital which is full of injured
people who are also in the corridors of
the hospital and the medical teams are
very busy on the uh on dealing with the
the injured who are coming in each hour
to the hospitals and ICU units are
occupied by the injured who are in
severe cases and I'm with such difficult
circumstances for so many people in Gaza
in particular for children are you
already seeing on the ground the
irreversible physiological effects of
long-term malnutrition on the Youth of
Gaza for example things like
stunting yes I'm uh during our visit to
the
shelters and our program our activities
on psychosocial support to the children
we have our NGS who are working there to
to have to offer such services and we
could witness uh the children the
orphans the children who are traumatized
and uh who are bad need for psychosocial
support
but we're coming the next day and during
the you know 1 hour after we leave the
shelter we have uh you know an air
strike or something happened we come
back to witness the same uh
implications same trauma to the children
who cannot uh spend the night without
nightmares without also it's scare
feeling due to the uh
discontinuous Rockets uh and air strikes
towards the neighborwoods we are now
overpopulated areas and it's open areas
now so children uh scared from situation
and uh mainly the children who lost one
one member of the family the father or
uh brother or sister and this is
happened everywhere we talk about big
number of people were killed or injured
and now in each shelter you can find
children without arms without legs
because because of the these a spikes
which is happened all over G Street this
is end which is overpopulated as
happened in ra before now we have about
1.2 million Palestinians who uh most of
them displaced to the middle area and we
had the massacre in inat area and most
of the people who were injured and
killed were
children so stories are moved from one
to another thank you so much amjad shawa
the joining us from dead albala in Gaza
the director of the Palestinian ngo's
Network thank you so much sir for your
time make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer